---
title: "Steam Deck"
hero: /images/blog/2021-07-17-steam-deck/hero.jpg
description: "I reserved a Steam Deck. And I'm super excited about it."
---

On Friday, I reserved a [Steam Deck](https://www.steamdeck.com/). And I'm super
excited about it.

On the 15th of July, [Valve](https://www.valvesoftware.com/en/) announced the
[Steam Deck](https://www.steamdeck.com/). A handheld gaming "console", very much
like the Nintendo Switch, but for PC games. Spec-wise, it boasts an AMD Zen 2
4c/8t CPU with an RDNA 2 GPU unit, 16GB of DDR5 RAM and a 7" 1280x800 screen. It
comes in 3 variants, with the only difference being storage (64GB, 256GB and
512GB). I went with the 256GB.  I've heard they all use an M.2 slot, so maybe
room for an upgrade in the future.

The hardware is pretty impressive for a handheld. And Valve claims it can run
"AAA" games. The release material included footage of Star Wars Jedi: Fallen
Order, apparently on high settings, sounds promising. Games will run well enough
for me either way (there is that slight worry as the hardware isn't upgradable).
But the ability to play through my Steam backlog. Win.

<a><img src="/images/blog/2021-07-17-steam-deck/deck.jpg"  class="figure center"></a>

Gaming isn't my sole reason for preordering.  The openness of the platform is a
big win for me. Valve decided to keep the system unlocked. It's just a PC. You
can do what you wish with it. It comes with a new Steam OS, based on Archlinux -
my favourite Linux OS. It uses KDE for the desktop - I'm a KDE user. Fanboyism
aside, this elevates Linux gaming even further. And I hope, provides some free
marketing for KDE :).

The Deck will be dockable. Valve is selling one separately, but any USB-C dock
 works. When docked, it looks like it becomes more PC like, with full access to
 the desktop (I assume you can still do that handheld).  And this got me
 thinking. I can use this while on holiday to play some games, but I can also
 access remote servers via SSH should I need it. While being smaller and cheaper
 than an equivalent "gaming laptop". Big wins for me.

The openness also leads to the possibility of running emulators. Imagine having
a device run more legacy Nintendo games than the Switch? ðŸ˜‚

Don't get me wrong. I have my reservations. I know Valve's track record with
hardware, and the hardware isn't upgradeable. It's not the best looking console
(although I trust Valve with ergonomics).  The Deck is also heavier than the
Switch.

But boy, do I want this to be a success. I've got to wait until Q1 2022 for
mine. That's OK though, I'm excited.
